Copyright (c) 2003-2010 ZeroC, Inc. All rights reserved.

This copy of Ice is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as
published by the Free Software Foundation.

Ice is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses.

Linking Ice statically or dynamically with other modules is making a
combined work based on Ice. Thus, the terms and conditions of the GNU
General Public License cover the whole combination.

In addition, as a special exception, ZeroC gives you permission to
combine Ice with:

a) the OpenSSL library (or with modified versions of OpenSSL that use the
same license as OpenSSL)

b) any library licensed under the Apache License, version 2.0
(http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

c) any Orca library (http://orca-robotics.sourceforge.net) licensed under
the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL), version 2.1
(http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.html)

d) any code from the Mumble project (http://mumble.sourceforge.net)
licensed under the BSD license

You may copy and distribute such combinations following the terms of the
GNU General Public License for Ice and the licenses of the other code
concerned, provided that you include the source code of these other
libraries or code when and as the GNU General Public License requires
distribution of source code.

If you modify this copy of Ice, you may extend this exception to your
version of Ice, but you are not obligated to do so. If you do not wish to
do so, delete this exception statement from your version.
