Copyright (c) 2003-2012 ZeroC, Inc. All rights reserved.

This copy of Ice for Silverlight is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General
Public License version 2 as published by the Free Software Foundation.

Ice for Silverlight is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
version 2 along with this program; if not, see
http://www.gnu.org/licenses.

Linking Ice for Silverlight statically or dynamically with other
software (such as a library, module or application) is making a
combined work based on Ice for Silverlight.  Thus, the terms and
conditions of the GNU General Public License version 2 cover this
combined work.

If such software can only be used together with Ice for Silverlight,
then not only the combined work but the software itself is a work
derived from Ice for Silverlight and as such shall be licensed under
the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2. This includes
the situation where Ice for Silverlight is only being used through an
abstraction layer.

You may also combine Ice for Silverlight with any software not derived
from Ice for Silverlight, provided the license of such software is
compatible with the GNU General Public License version 2. In addition,
as a special exception, ZeroC grants you permission to combine Ice for
Silverlight with any library not derived from Ice for Silverlight and
licensed under the terms of the Apache License, version 2.0
(http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

If you modify this copy of Ice for Silverlight, you may extend any of
the exceptions provided above to your version of Ice for Silverlight,
but you are not obligated to do so.
