This directory contains a PHP/HTML implementation of the Ice hello
client. The procedure for installing this script depends on your Web
server environment. For example, if you're using PHP as a Web server
module, then you'll need to install this script in your document root
directory.

Alternatively, if you're using CGI, then you will need to make this
script executable, add a line at the top of the script to indicate the
path to the PHP CGI binary, and copy the script to your cgi-bin
directory. On Unix platforms, the line at the top of the file should
look something like the one below, where /opt/php5 is the PHP5
installation directory:

#! /opt/php5/bin/php

Next, the PHP configuration must be modified to load the Slice
definitions required by this example. In php.ini, set this directive:

ice.slice=/opt/icephp/demo/Ice/hello/Hello.ice

For a Linux RPM installation, this directive can be added to
/etc/php.d/ice.ini.

Finally, start the hello server on the Web server host and try out the
script. You can use a hello server from any language mapping.

Note that support for secure invocations via SSL are disabled by
default. If you have configured SSL for the Ice extension, edit
hello.php and set the have_ssl variable to true.


=========================================================================
SELinux Notes
=========================================================================

SELinux augments the traditional Unix permissions with a number of
new features. In particular, SELinux can prevent the httpd daemon from
opening network connections and reading files without the proper
SELinux types.

If you suspect that your IcePHP application does not work due to
SELinux restrictions, we recommend that you first try it with SELinux
disabled. As root, run:

# setenforce 0

to disable SELinux until the next reboot of your computer.

If you want to run httpd with IcePHP and SELinux enabled, you must do
the following:

- Allow httpd to open network connections:

  # setsebool httpd_can_network_connect=1 

  (add the -P option to make this setting persistent across reboots)

- Make sure any .ice file used by your PHP scripts can be read by 
  httpd. The enclosing directory also needs to be accessible. For
  example:

  # chcon -R -t httpd_sys_content_t /opt/MyApp/slice 

For more information on SELinux in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4, refer
to the link below:

  http://www.redhat.com/docs/manuals/enterprise/RHEL-4-Manual/selinux-guide/
